# AnthroSnake Project

## Overview
The AnthroSnake project consists of two primary Python scripts designed to analyze and visualize anthropometric data based on the WHO Child Growth Standards. The scripts are:

- `AnthroSnake.py`: Calculates Weight-for-Age (WFA), Height-for-Age (HFA), and BMI-for-Age (BMIFA) Z-scores for participants aged 0 to 19 years, based on the provided raw data and the WHO Child Growth Standards.
- `AnthroSnakeVisualize.py`: Visualizes the distributions of WFA, HFA, and BMIFA Z-scores, calculates mean Z-scores and confidence intervals, and determines the prevalence of various malnutrition indicators.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.x
- Libraries: `pandas`, `numpy`, `matplotlib`, `seaborn`, `scipy`
- Input data in CSV format with specific columns (details below)

### Installation
Clone the repository and install the required Python libraries:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Chordatae/AnthroSnake1
cd AnthroSnake
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Usage

#### AnthroSnake.py
This script processes raw anthropometric data. Ensure your CSV file contains the following columns: `number`, `birthday`, `sex`, `height`, `weight`, `date_of_visit`, `age_months`. Columns can be in any order, and additional columns are allowed.

Run the script and follow the prompts to input the name of your CSV file:
```bash
python AnthroSnake.py
```

 The program will output an augmented version of your CSV file featuring Weight-for-Age (WFA), Height-for-Age (HFA), and BMI-for-Age (BMIFA) Z-scores.

#### AnthroSnakeVisualize.py
After generating the Z-scores using `AnthroSnake.py`, use this script to visualize the data. It reads the output CSV file generated by `AnthroSnake.py` and creates a series of plots.

If you did not output the default file name from `AnthroSnake.py`, first modify the `DATA_FILE_NAME` constant at the top of `AnthroSnakeVisualize.py` to change the input data source.

Run the script:
```bash
python AnthroSnakeVisualize.py
```

The program will output a PDF file featuring distributions of WFA, HFA, and BMIFA Z-scores, along with the mean Z-scores and prevalence of various malnutrition indicators.

## Data Format
Your input CSV file should adhere to the following format:
- `number`: Participant identifier (optional for tracking purposes)
- `birthday`: Participant's date of birth (MM/DD/YYYY)
- `sex`: Participant's sex (male/female)
- `height`: Height in centimeters
- `weight`: Weight in kilograms
- `date_of_visit`: Date of data collection (MM/DD/YYYY)
- `age_months`: Age in months (optional if `birthday` and `date_of_visit` are provided)

## Contributing
Contributions to the AnthroSnake project are welcome. Please submit a pull request for review.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Contact
Charles Willits - chwillits@gmail.com
